---
layout: post
title: "Why I Love Living in a Van"
author: "Cash Compton"
category: "blog"
tags: "freedom simplicity minimalism van life vanlife #vanlife blog"
excerpt: "I love my van so much. It instills in me a great sense of freedom and a feeling that anything is possible."
---

I love my van so much. I love it so much it brings a tear to my eye 😊! I feel a great sense of joy and accomplishment when I look around at what I've built. It feels like home. It instills in me a great sense of freedom and a feeling that anything is possible.

I have so much freedom because I can move anywhere at a moments notice. I can be neighbors with a friend for a few days while I park on the street in front of their house, I can go into the middle of nowhere in a national forest where Quinn can run off-leash, I can park on a quiet street bordering the ocean and wake up to the sunrise on a deserted beach that Quinn and I have to ourselves. The possibilities are endless really, I'm only limited by my imagination and will to move. I'm a very independent person so I thrive under the responsibility of having to constantly decide where and when to go.

All of my main destinations have been stops to visit friends and family. Van life would be nothing without my friends and family that I see along the way and I'm so blessed to have people to visit all over the country. Connecting with friends is my favorite part of van life. It takes effort to meet up with folks, but it's so worth it. My friendships have been strengthened faster while I'm doing vanlife as opposed to having regular accommodations. I think there are multiple reasons for this expedited bonding:

- An obvious and practical one is that I have more excuses to hang out- I could use a local to show me around, a place to park, fill up my water tanks, do laundry, take a hot shower, etc. so I end up spending more time with people. So far my friends and family have been more than happy to help me with these things and thankfully the things I need are amenities most take for granted and don't mind sharing so that means I don't feel bad for taking them and they're happily given. In addition to spending more time with people, it feels amazing to receive this help because I _really_ appreciate it and I know it's a sign of their love, and I think they know that too so they feel good about helping me.
- I'm almost always on a high of doing some fun activity or going on a crazy adventure. This means I'm generally happier and feel more fulfilled. I think this good energy is contagious and makes for great times and conversation. Also, sometimes friends join me on the crazy adventures Jan facilitates which is obviously amazing.
- I'm genuinely happier and feel more fulfilled while travelling so it's just easier to make meaningful connections with people. When you're in a good headpspace, people can recognize that and 

The main thing that enables all of this freedom is minimalism or keeping things simple. Your home and transportation in one, and all of your possessions in this 70sq ft space. It's simple- I can look around and see all of my belongings. This makes it really easy to make conscious decisions about what I spend my time doing. I can see everything and I thought long and hard about the inclusion of each item, so all of my options are clear to me. When I look around, I see my bicycle, skateboard, paddleboard, kitchen, etc. and I'm constantly reminded of all of the amazing things I can be doing. I cultivated the space to promote activities that I want to spend my time doing. I don't have a tv or external monitor so at the end of the day I read or journal instead of mindlessly watching a show. I have a nice kitchen setup with a huge fridge and freezer so it's easy to cook healthy vegetarian meals instead of eating out. My recycling and compost bins are much larger than my trash can so I produce very little waste. I love living in this tiny space and I have no desire to live in a non-tiny home. When you have more space you feel the need to fill it up, usually with things you don't actually need. I don't like having anything in my home that I don't absolutely love. I love when things are simple and there's no excess. I don't like having more than I need because it's wasteful. Not just physically wasteful but also mentally because possessions take up space in our minds. The more we have the harder it is to make decisions, which makes it easier to lose focus on what's most important to us. Minimalism is really about focusing only on the most important things in your life by removing as many distractions as possible.

There are some negatives to the van vs typical accommodations, most of which center around not having indoor plumbing 😅. I only have 20 gallons of water, I don't have hot water, and showering in the van is done by standing in a collapsible bucket with a garden hose in hand 😂. However, I like doing things differently so I kind of enjoy my unconventionally setup. Plus, it forces me to workout more since shower at the YMCA or Planet Fitness or I get hot and sweaty before doing a cold shower in the van. There are many tradeoffs, but at this point in my life I feel the pros drastically outweigh the cons. These tradeoffs have been good for my mental health because they remind me everything has a silver lining. It's possible to be happy and grateful for what you have no matter the situation.

I have a home custom tailored to me, location included! It feels so good to follow my passions without worrying about society's expectations of me. 