---
layout: poem
title: on our way to the sea
tags: "mindfulness sea river thoughts nonviolence nonviolent compassion bodhisattva"
---

## on our way to the sea

we are a river flowing to the sea  
every drop of water is a decision by you and me  
the current flows along, singing a certain song  
sometimes we flow fast  
droplets flying by  
some areas are weak and others strong  
white water churns, calm water settles  
which way do you want to flow?  
what do you want to see?  
with whom do you want to be on your way to the sea?

our minds add a drop here and a drop there  
we have free will to choose in which stream we flow

as the river heads to the sea, which current is pulling at me?  
white water is loud and im aware of its strength  
cautious i must be, on my way to the sea

with every drop we add, our current becomes more clear  
each of us is a stream, flowing to the sea  
a decision made in anger has a certain frequency  
it rushes fast, churning tumultuously  
decisions made from love are slower, taking time to notice others

everything in existence has its place in this world  
granite, solid. cedar, splitting.  
raven, charred but still singing.  
their notes are clear  
listening deeply, the sounds of each do appear  
they have quite firm destinies compared to the likes of you and me  
we are human and therefore must decide who we want to be  
what melodies do we create?  
which kinds of notes am i hitting?  
what wonders will we unlock with this symphony?

there is no escaping our destiny  
only deciding where to flow on our way to the sea
